JAVA TERM 2: GAME PROJECT
I developed this game as part of my project for Java term 2 Year 1 Computer Science at City, University of London. The engine behind the whole game is the City Physique Engine which simulates simple 2D physique like collisions and gravity. The game I built is overall simple. It consists of a main character which I called Hero. He has to avoid the fire balls falling from the sky and collect coins. If he gets hit by a fireball he loses 1 life, and after losing all the lives the game is technically over. The number of the lives left and the coins collected as well as the number of the Level in which the player is, are all displaying in the top left corner. There is a background music for the Game and there are special sound effects when the player hits the coins or the fire balls. The game has a simple interactive Menu which can be toggled on and off by just pressing a button. The Menu allows to pause the game, exit the game and go to the Settings to turn the volume up or down The game has 3 different levels. To progress from one level to the next one the character has to collect a certain amount of coins depending on the Level. For example to pass level one he has to get at least 5 coins. The level two is completed after collecting 10 coins and the last level is finished when he collects 20 coins. The speed of the falling balls and the coins increse as the player progress to the next level. The main difficulties I encountered developing the game were the Null Pointer exceptions. These errors came out when I tried to access variables which WERE not pointing to any particular object and WE null. I had to use debugger to figure out where the error was and I had to pass appropriate parameters within the constructors to solve the problem. As I have never coded before prior to this course I have to admit that I am pretty satisfied with the result I have achieved even though the game is simple.
